Homepage (#16)
xterm-x11/docs: docs/index.md

# XTerm

*Developed and maintained since 1986.*

## What is it?

XTerm is the standard terminal emulator application for the X Window System ([X.org](https://x.org/)).

Each XTerm window runs as a separate process. Some may run on remote machines, using the X protocol to display on a local machine, while others may run and display on the same local machine. X allows applications to update their windows independently, but the local machine's keyboard and mouse are shared, i.e., only delivering input events to the window which currently has *focus*.

## Why use it?

* Developed for the X Window System that is time-tested and available across Linux and UNIX systems.
* Packages available on most Linux and UNIX systems.

> * Independent of the Linux desktop environment, so you can stick with it even if you decide to switch desktop environments.

Author: ```suggestion
* Independent of the Linux desktop environment, so you can be a more advanced user of this one terminal emulator rather than having to learn another terminal emulator if you switch desktop environments.
```

> * Configured in a simple config file: Download, upload, and back up your configuration as a single file. Easy-to-read, single-line parameters and values. Easy-to-understand configuration steps for novice terminal users.

Author: ```suggestion
* Configured in a simple config file that is portable across systems and desktop environments: Download, upload, and back up your configuration as a single file. Easy-to-read, single-line parameters and values. Easy-to-understand configuration steps for novice terminal users.
```

* One of the faster terminal emulators.

> * Hundreds of community color themes, with 256 color support and easy color theme creation.

Author: ```suggestion
* [Hundreds of community color themes](https://github.com/xterm-x11/files.Xresources/tree/main/XTerm-color-theme-registry), with 256 color support and easy color theme creation.
```

> * [Hundreds of community color themes](https://github.com/xterm-x11/files.Xresources/tree/main/XTerm-color-theme-registry), with 256 color support and easy color theme creation.

Author: ```suggestion
* [Hundreds of community color themes](https://github.com/xterm-x11/files.Xresources/tree/main/XTerm-color-theme-registry), 256 color support for Text UI applications like [Midnight Commander](https://midnight-commander.org/) and [htop](https://htop.dev/), and easy color theme creation and editing.
```
